# Arteries-based-Traffic-Control-Methods
In this thesis there will be introduced two main traffic control methods, both were designed for networks with arteries. The permeability of these networks is bigger, and also the capability of travelling faster motivates the drivers to use the arteries thanks to the correct traffic light phases. Therefore fewer roads are used intensively and needs to be maintained more often. The first observed algorithm was designed for really specific conditions; therefore the usage of this method is limited. Due to this property in these conditions this method is more efficient, than the others were designed for more general situations. On the oth- er hand the second observed algorithm can be used in general situations without any serious restriction. The first and maybe the most important restriction of the first method is that the traf- fic can flow only in one direction in one artery. In the case of two way traffic, there is a chance, that the side streets will be totally blocked. The main purpose of the method is to serve the arterial traffic in the most efficient way, but it is not acceptable, that side streets do not get green light at all. Other typical property of the algorithm is it is based on prediction, so the algorithm tries to figure out how will look like the traffic in the future based on the traffic right now and some statistics information which is the result of previous measurements. The lights will be controlled based on these predic- tions. The further we want to optimize, the greater will be the inaccuracy. The other method was designed for two way arteries, and the prediction gets less at- tention, because in this case the phases of the lights are determined based on the network, not the traffic. Basically here we need to figure out one cycle of the phases and it will be used for the whole simulation. Therefore this method is less efficient, but here we have the opportunity to use this algorithm for the case, when the network contains intersecting arteries, or a whole arterial loop.
